# Introduction

The base project is created with the vite template for react with typescript.

## Trying out the standard project

1.  Inside the root folder (ie, the one that has the `package.json` file) run
    `npm install` to install the dependencies.

1.  look at the 3 scripts defined in `package.json` file:

    ```json
    "scripts": {
        "dev": "vite",
        "build": "tsc && vite build",
        "preview": "vite preview"
    }
    ```

    1. to run a script script: `npm run <scriptname>`
    2. run all three and try to figure out what they do. (hint: tsc is the typescript compiler and preview only works after a build)

    ```

    ```

## The app component: minimal component

Delete the contents of the `index.css` and `app.css` files and replace the contents of the app.jsx file with this:

```tsx
function App() {
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Hello React</h1>
    </div>
  );
}

export default App;
```

**note** that the component name does not follow the usual naming convention for functions but uses PascalCase, like classes.

_optional_: change the title and the favicon. (note that this will be undone if you check out another branch)

## The app component: local variables

change the App function to this

```tsx
function App() {
  const title = "React";
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Hello {title}</h1>
    </div>
  );
}
```

**note** that the title variable is recreated every time this function is called, ie every time this componen is (re)rendered.

Another way to define a variable is to put it outside the function. When a variable has no dependencies on values of the function this is the preferred way.

```tsx
const title = "React";

function App() {
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Hello {title}</h1>
    </div>
  );
}

export default App;
```

## React Developer tools plugin

install the React developer tools in your favourite browser:

- [chrome](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/react-developer-tools/fmkadmapgofadopljbjfkapdkoienihi)
- [Firefox](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/react-devtools/)
- [Edge](https://microsoftedge.microsoft.com/addons/detail/react-developer-tools/gpphkfbcpidddadnkolkpfckpihlkkil)

On the page, open your dev tools and you should see 2 new headings: components and profiler. Open the components tab and you can inspect our single component.
